Hello and welcome back to the course on statistics.
And today we're talking about the central limit theorem intuition.
So we've already discussed what the central limit theorem is all about.
That's whatever distribution you have in your population the sampling distribution of your sample means
will be normal.
All be close and Roble given that you take a lot of samples the more Savile's you have and the larger
those samples the closer will be to normal distribution.
But the point still stands that you will have a normal distribution regardless of what the underlying
distribution of population is.
So let's have a look at how exactly this can come to be let's have a look at the intuitive side of things.
So let's start with our distribution very unknown very strange looking distribution here and we'll just
point out where the mean of the situation is and by looking at the picture we can assess that it's somewhere
over there probably.
Next we're going to take a sample from here and we're going to take a sample of 10 random elements from
this distribution and that's what it might look like because it's random and it could look anything
like anything that would come from the distribution and therefore that's one of the examples.
Now let's take another sample and this is what this sample often elements might look like a second other
sample.
This one might look like that.
And this is another one called that.
And let's have a look at another one that we got.
So we've taken five so far of course we need to take way more than that.
We take lots and lots of samples and more the better.
And then what happens is we find them mean.
So we're going through the process of creating the sampling distribution we've talked about in a couple
of times but now we're actually going through the process of creating a sampling description so to create
a sampling distribution.
We need to find the sample means or the mean of every single sample.
So there's all mean of the first sample.
There's I mean the second sample somewhere there there's no third samples.
There's more to the left because you can see there's more elements that came from the left side of the
original distribution.
There's our sample mean for the fourth sample.
And there's Amin for the fifth sample is very far on the right because we don't have anything on the
left and so on so we do that for the rest of them that we've picked out and what we want to do next
is we want to finally plot this sampling distribution of the sampling of the sample mean.
Next what we want to do is take all of these sample means that we've found and project them onto our
new chart and that's what it looked like.
So here we only have five so far.
And of course we'll have way more because of all of those other steps that we're going to take in here.
All of those other samples that we're going to look at but even just five already starts to paint the
picture you can see that this is kind of the intuition behind things so we're going to be understanding
why is it going to be a normal distribution.
So what we expect is a normal distribution.
And there's going to be a couple of other things I will notice just now.
So first of all why would it be a normal distribution.
Well you can see that sometimes you kind of like gets a sample from far away from here from the left
sometimes you get a sample from the right.
But generally speaking because you're sampling randomly from this distribution it's kind of weighing
towards the center.
So even though there's like it's a buy buy model distribution you got left and the right arm they kind
of balance each other out.
So sometimes you get some values from here which will be balance Ahlberg.
So you get these values which are balanced by our bodies.
So this X is still close to the center these values about our bodies Raje this extra cost center then
this time these values in really bad.
This one out you've got an x that is not exactly the center.
It's going to be towards the tail of the distribution.
Then again you've got an x that is balanced and then you go to X that is not balanced out and the natural
question becomes and here is what if you only had one hand you had the hump here.
What if you didn't have this then this X wouldn't be here in the first place this X is always going
to be in the middle that's where it's going to be at the mean.
So that's why it would have been here.
And then the whole thing would be would happen is exactly the same way but around a different mean and
that's the kind of like the the magic to it that this the positioning of this X is the mean and therefore
it's kind of like in-between in the very center of this distribution regardless of what it looks like.
And therefore when you're sampling your new means are always going to be somewhere on the center.
And moreover the model you'll have more of them as as you're closer to the center as you get for the
way it's going to happen rarer because it's it's more rare event to just get parts of the OR JUST GET
elements from this distribution just from here.
Given that if this is the mean then there's an equal amount.
Pretty much that there's an equal probability of getting some from here as well.
So things like this are going to be quite rare whereas this is going to be more common.
And so once you take more of these samples you will get something that was just a sampling distribution
of the sample mean.
And now the key here is that's where an additional insight which we've already talked through is that
the meaning of this sampling distribution is actually going to match up with this mean.
So they're going to be exactly the same.
And that's a very powerful and additional powerful feature of the Central Limit Theorem because by constructing
this sampling distribution now you can just look at the mean of the sampling distribution and you will
know the mean in your underlying population because you don't actually know it from the from the start
you don't know this mean but because you now know this sampling distribution you know it's mean you
will know the mean of the population.
So that's a very powerful thing.
So Or if you knew this for some reason you knew this then you can establish what the meaning of the
sampling distribution is is very powerful that they're linked together.
So basically if you put that into a sentence then the mean of the sampling distribution of the sample
mean is equal to the mean of the original distribution of the population.
So as you can see that sentence starting to grow and grow with lots of terms but nevertheless it is
quite an intuitive concept when you think about it the way we thought about it.
So let's write that down sampling distribution.
The myu of X bar equals to me.
So every important thing to note here is that well first of all x bar is.
That's ex-parte every single time and therefore that's the sampling distribution.
But remember at the start we said we will have a different notation for samples for samples which are
going to mean we're going to use X bar so that's the sample.
So the question is why are we using here again for the sampling distribution when are we using X bar
of X bar or a different x bar.
Why is not we are not treating this as sample Why are we treating it as a distribution as a population.
Well that is because this is a different thing.
It's not a sample.
So these are samples but this is not a sample.
It's not necessarily a population.
This is the population.
But at the same time this is not a sample and that's why we're going to be using the original characters
or Greek letters.
So we're going to be using you for the sample mean for the sampling distribution.
That's number one.
So we already know two things about the central limit.
First of all that this is going to be a normal distribution no matter what.
Second is that your mean of your sampling distribution of the sample mean is going to be equal to the
mean of the original population.
And the third thing about the central and theorem there has to be three of course is that the standard
deviation of your sampling distribution is actually very linked directly linked to your standard deviation
of your original population.
So the standard additional sampling distribution is basically your standard deviation of the original
population divided by square root of the number of observations that you're taking every time.
So here would be a square root of 10 and that's a very important thing as well so what it's basically
saying we're not going to prove it here because you would need to go into math for that.
But what it's saying is that the more you take every single time.
So if I wasn't taking that and if instead of 10 we were taking 100 observations for every sample then
your normal distribution here would be much narrower because remember the sanitation is a metric of
how a variance of how the values here vary and if your and is greater then this value will be lower.
So your standard will be lower and therefore this will be much taller and narrower meaning that your
actual results here.
Your sample means will be very close to the mean of this of this tradition.
So that's what this means.
And it's kind of it probably intuitive that you know the more you take the more accurate in like floating
quotations the more accurate as every single sample.
So there we go.
That's our central limit theorem and three elements three main elements to it.
That this is a normal distribution that the mean of your sampling distribution of re-assembling mean
is equal to the mean of the population that the standard deviation of your sampling distribution of
the sample mean is linked to the standard deviation of the original population in that formula.
So hope you enjoyed this tutorial and hope this is.
You can now see the power of the central limit theorem that how much value actually brings through these
three elements how much you'll be able to information you'll be able to extract insights.
And we'll actually see it in practice in the coming to terms and I can wait for you to check that out.
And until next time happy analyzing.